The SEAL teams uh is also a life of
suffering and pain uh and torment. I
would absolutely claim like that helped
me as an entrepreneur having gone
through the suffering, gone through the
pain. So, I'm I'm used to it at this
stage in the game.
>> Oh, that that seems optimistic.
[laughter]
>> This week on Bold Names, we're talking
to Brandon Sang. He's the co-founder of
Shield AI. The startup is making both
hardware and software for the next
generation of warfare, one that puts
autonomous drones on the front lines.
That's next. Brandon, thank you so much
for joining us today here on Bold Names.
I'm excited. There's a lot going on with
AI and defense tech, but first I want to
get into your founding story a little
bit. Shield AI founded in 2015. Before
that, you were a Navy Seal, deployed
twice in Afghanistan, and I'm just
curious, how did that experience shape
your understanding of what technology
could do for warfare?
>> Yeah. No, first Tim, thanks for having
me. Uh, really excited to chat today.
Um, certainly my deployments in the Navy
informed my perspective,
uh, you know, which I've I've now come
to appreciate having done SHIELD for
almost 11 years now. Um, and and look,
I'll I'll be honest. When I was in the
SEAL teams, when I was operating, I
wasn't really thinking about, hey, how
could I do this mission better? Hey,
what if I could do this? Uh, I had great
I thought at the time I had great
technology. I had great assets. Uh, had
satellite imagery. I had Apache
helicopters, uh, Predator drones, F-18s,
all at my disposal to to accomplish my
missions. Uh, we had Palunteer. And so
when I was actually operating day in day
out, um was very happy uh with the tech
stack that I was using. Um now it wasn't
until I decided, hey, I'm going to leave
the SEAL teams. I'm going to get out of
the Navy. Um and I'm going to go do
something else. And what else could I
do? Um did I start to think about ways
that I could improve what I was doing on
the battlefield. And I would say it was
actually much a a much bigger macro uh
forcing function than anything else at
the end of the day. Um was I uh I asked
I I wanted to be a part of AI and
autonomy. Grew up in the age of the
internet. Saw what that was. Asked
myself what's going to be the next
internet. Decided it was going to be AI.
Decided it was going to be autonomy.
Asked myself what is the role of AI and
autonomy in the military of 2035. This
was back in 2015. decided it should be
powering, commanding, maneuvering every
single military asset under the sun. So,
we started by putting an AI pilot on a
quadcopter to go inside buildings, which
was a a problem that I was very familiar
with.
>> I I am just curious
as having been a SEAL, how does that
kind of shape your mindset as an
entrepreneur? Does it help you? Are do
you are the the lows as low as as other
entrepreneurs or is it just is it easy
compared to what you've been through?
No, look, entrepreneurship is uh it's a
life of suffering. It is I I tell our
investors, I've stared into the abyss so
many times. Uh I tell people, look, it's
awful every single day. And I think
that's hard for people to like
understand or appreciate. It's like, oh
well, you guys are doing so well. You're
multi-billion dollar company. It doesn't
make it any easier. Uh you're solving
the unsolvable problems day in day out.
Um and so it's it's awful. um is what I
what I tell people. Now to your point
the uh the SEAL teams uh is also a life
of suffering and pain uh and torment. Um
and so what I have come to a you know I
I would absolutely claim like that
helped me as an entrepreneur having gone
through the suffering gone through the
pain. So I'm I'm used to it at this
stage in the game.
>> Oh that that seems optimistic.
[laughter]
I I think it's interesting in 2015 when
you would have been starting this
company uh AI right now is the hot hot
big thing obviously in tech uh but a
decade ago autonomy for the physical
world was really the big bubble at the
time especially when it came to cars and
so it would have been natural that you
would been thinking about well how can
you deploy that in in other realms but
I'm not sure that there was as much
enthusiasm for defense tech at that
point so I'm curious about that first
product, the Nova, as you started to
talk about it, it was a it was about a
large pizza size diameter uh drone with
uh four propellers. What was it designed
to do?
>> I would actually say it was like a small
pizza. Um
>> small pizza. Okay, my bad.
>> Pizzaiz drone. Yes, I
>> guess a pizza the size of a pizza is in
in the eye of the beholder, I think.
>> Yeah. Yeah. [laughter and gasps] Um it
was a it was a small quadcopter that
would uh go inside buildings ahead of
special operations forces, ahead of
infantry forces uh to map out these
areas and find threats. Uh the video
feed and a map would be fed back to an
operator on a tablet device or a cell
phone um and they would actually see
little red dots on the map of where
people threats were inside these
buildings. That was used uh on a number
of different operations. I couldn't be
more proud of the product. Amazing
product. Uh very you know to to your
point like it was a interesting time in
the defense tech world. The defense
community I don't think knew what was
going on yet. Uh and interestingly that
was you know investors talk a lot about
product market fit. Um where oftent
times I would claim entrepreneurs they
can't actually build a great product.
The market's not the problem. In this
case we had this amazing product net
promoter score greater than 70. uh
operating in a really awful market which
was the military small drone market at
the time.
>> Yeah. There just there it wasn't quite
clear clear yet what the case for this
technology was. Right. I mean it seems
obvious now but I I guess I'm wondering
if you think back to your days in the
battlefield. What would having that Nova
had been like for you? What uh I mean if
you had that in your toolkit would how
do you think you would have been using
it?
>> Oh yeah. Look, it's clearing buildings
is the most dangerous operation that any
uh war fighter can conduct. Um you're
talking about gun battles at ranges of,
you know, less than 5 m uh less than 3
mters uh in some circumstances. Um and
so it looks really cool. I tell people
like look, it looks really cool in the
movies when you see it being done in any
action movie, but uh terrifying in real
life um if you actually have to
experience gunfire at super close range.
And so the Nova quadcopter, special
operations forces, they'd fly it in,
it'd go inside the building, start
mapping it out ahead. Um, and you
dramatically reduce the risk to your
forces. You reduce the risk to your
partner forces. You know what's going
on, uh, be, you know, inside the area
that you're operating, which allows you
to make the best decisions possible.
Let's fast forward a little bit to
today, just kind of on where the
industry's at. a little bit of a
struggle selling the business it in the
early days, but now I I have to imagine
the mood has changed dramatically.
Hundreds of billions of dollars have
been invested into defense tech uh in
the last few years. I'd note that a year
ago you raised $240 million and
Bloomberg is now reporting that you're
in talks to raise something like a
billion dollars in funding at a 12
billion valuation. I don't know if you
want to talk about that, but I I'm
curious, you know, how things are
different now when you talk to investors
from the early days to now. What is that
level of enthusiasm like um that you're
you're feeling or you're hearing?
>> Yeah, sure. And no, I won't I won't talk
about what may or may not be happening
right now regarding active fundraisers,
but um what I'll tell you is it it's
night and day difference. Um and so back
in 2015 when we were raising uh went up
to Silicon Valley went 30 for 30 nos. Um
and every single one of those brutal
brutal hurt and it's just it's a really
tough thing to go through. Uh and look
it was hey guys uh really noble mission
but everybody knows you don't do
defense. Like you don't build a business
in defense tech. That was the or in in
the defense field. They're like the
government's a horrible customer. And so
um you know fast forward to where we are
today and it is a world of difference
where uh yes you have investors uh you
know reaching out trying to figure out
how to get involved with shield AI very
interested in this space.
>> Yeah. And one of the reasons I think
that that the conventional wisdom is you
didn't want to get into defense tech was
there's these huge players already that
are already attached to the Pentagon.
It's bure bureaucratic. there's a very
difficult uh kind of contracting uh
process very hard to be the new guy to
get into there was one of the issues
right
>> 100%
>> and we also kind of as a society had
been fighting wars in a certain way for
the last few generations right which I
think brings us to the Ukraine situation
which has helped kind of prove the point
that there are new ways to fight the
battles right Ukraine has really become
more than a testing
uh for cutting edge drone warfare. Um it
has become kind of the way war has is
being fought and probably going to be
fought into the future. How how is
Shield AI involved in the in Ukraine?
>> Yeah, sure. Look, we have uh one of our
pro actually two of our products. VBAT
is our aircraft. It is uh
>> now this thing
describe how big this thing is.
>> Yeah, VBAT is gosh, I want to say it's
around like nine feet tall. uh 10 foot
wingspan. Actually, I'll just This is a
This is a model of it right here. So, it
uh takes off vertically uh transitions
to horizontal flight um and then we'll
fly very very long distances looking for
targets. It is the exact same mission
that a Predator or Reaper drone does. We
just do it in a smaller footprint for a
fraction of the price. And so what we
have been doing in Ukraine is we've been
launching from the battlefield from all
these different spots. We're very highly
mobile. We fit in the back of a truck.
Hivemines's on board which is our AI
pilot that
>> Hivemine being the the software that
controls the physical aspect of this
drone. Yep. And it's enabling it to
operate while GPS and communications is
jammed. And this is perhaps you know
drone warfare gets talked a lot about in
Ukraine. Certainly there have been
pieces that have talked about the
electronic warfare side of things, but
the electronic warfare in uh the Russia
Ukraine conflict is absolutely brutal.
>> What you're saying is the Russians have
are using technology to block that
signal. So then a drone that depends
upon GPS then doesn't know where it is
in the world and it's it can't fly
around and do it stuff, right? So you've
figured out a way around that. What is
that way?
>> Yep. And I actually just want to add on
top. It's not just drones. It is
missiles. It is rockets. We have GPS
guided rockets. We have GPSG guided
missiles. We have GPSG guided bombs. And
so you're talking about an arsenal that
has been built on the backbone of this
GPS technology that has now become
largely obsolete on the battlefield
because of this jamming. Um, and so the
way that Shield AI solves it is our AI
pilot, which is the easiest way to think
about an AI pilot is self-driving
technology for unmanned systems. what
Tesla is doing uh where they've got uh
you know their self-driving car with a
bunch of cameras and it's building a map
of the world. That car is localizing
itself using the map that it has built
uh versus being wholly reliant on GPS.
We're doing the exact same thing. We're
using the sensors on board these drones
to build a map of the world and we
localize ourselves off of the map that
we have built. Um, and that is how we
get through this GPS jamming problem,
this communications jamming problem
where our systems can operate
independent uh of those two
technologies.
>> And this is a big deal, right? Because a
lot of US drone makers have struggled in
Ukraine because of this issue.
>> It's a hard technology. Shield AI has
invested in this technology for the past
10 and a half years. And because of
those investments, we find ourselves
alone in terms of what we are able to do
on the battlefield. So last year
actually you know last year yeah in
Ukraine uh and even before that in 2024
we were operating while GPS and
communications is jammed. We were
finding targets hundreds of kilometers
away from the Ford line of troops
further than the Ukrainians have ever
been and were able to target and destroy
those Russian assets. So you're in
Ukraine another another spot you're in.
uh you got some attention recently. The
US Coast Guard has credited your drones,
particularly the VBAT, uh for more than
$1 billion in narcotic seizures last
year alone. Uh is this how you kind of
imagined your drones might be used as
well?
>> Yeah, 100%. Um, look, the they are uh
you need and again understand a lot of
people might not necessarily be super
familiar with military operations, but
intelligence was driving every single
one of my SEAL operations every single
time. I just wanted more intel, more
intel, more intel because I could start
to build target packages around that.
You can never have enough intel. And so
that's what our systems, the VBAT system
is doing at the end of the day. It's
providing an intelligence picture that
allows people to make the best decisions
possible. It's like again, it's knowing
what your adversary is doing all the
time. And so, and look, there's a
layered intelligence picture from
satellites on down to aircraft like our
VBATs. Uh, and we play a critical role
in that intelligence picture. But
absolutely like when I think about uh
border security, maritime domain
awareness, what we've been doing in the
Caribbean Sea with the US Coast Guard,
100% like in our in our Bailey wick in
terms of what we've been doing and also
a lot of European countries, the
European border security agency Frontex
has been a customer of Shield AI. When
we work with countries like Greece, not
only do they care about their eastern
border with Turkey, but they're very
concerned uh about uh you know
immigration and having maritime domain
awareness coming from their southern uh
maritime border. Um it is
absolutely like something that shield AI
focuses on.
>> So last year the Trump administration
announced a major increase in defense
spending to around trillion dollars. Uh,
Army Secretary Dan Driscoll has talked
about embracing quote startup culture
end quote within the military. Uh, you
have have been in the military, you have
been working uh to try to make the
military a client for many years. Have
you noticed a change in that culture in
the past year? And if so, what is how is
it different? You know in the past you
would see uh portfolio ac acquisition
executives or program executive officers
uh they would actually heir towards
right the safe bet right no one ever got
fired for hiring IBM is like the the
tech uh phrase no one ever got fired for
hiring Loheed Martin at this stage in
the game it's become like hey why are
you guys work the question is like okay
pro like why is it that you're just
working with a legacy prime is there a
reason why you're not working with you
know a company that can do it in a
different way, that can solve the
problem, uh maybe in a different way.
And it's not to say that like look, I
have all the respect in the world for
our legacy aerospace uh and defense
prime contractors. They make incredible
products. They make incredible weapon
systems, but again, their specialty has
not been AI and autonomy. It has not
been software. Honestly, it hasn't been
small systems. Um and so you see this
need from the customer from the war
fighter for a different way of doing
business and that is what uh you know
absolutely are feeling that change uh in
the US army in SOCOM in the US air force
the navy the marine corps um it is again
night and day difference uh compared to
you know where we were in 2015 1617
>> so a decade ago the feeling the
conventional wisdom in Silicon Valley
was you don't want to have the Pentagon
as a client But you clearly have figured
it out. What's the What was the trick?
>> No, no secret uh uh switch. I actually
tell people like look, working with the
government is like banging your head
against a concrete wall. And so I just
kind of like did that repeatedly. Now
the fun thing is like sometimes you
break through that concrete wall and
you're just like look, I just did that
with my head and that inspires you to
keep going. Um there are no uh easy
answers period. At the end of the day,
companies lose and they fail all the
time. There is not an onus on the
customer that the company succeeds. The
onus is all on the company. You figure
out what products are going to provide
undeniable value to your customer. Um,
and then you figure out how to get it
into the hands of your customer.
>> Another thing that's kind of been
equated to banging your head against the
wall is manufacturing. Where do you
build your drones?
>> Uh, we build them in Dallas, Texas. uh
in a uh a 200,000 square foot facility
called the uh the Batcave and uh looking
at uh finding a new space TBD in terms
of location uh for our expat which will
be 850,000 square foot manufacturing
facility state-of-the-art.
>> I mean you're what's your capacity now?
How many can how many can you crank out
at this moment?
>> Yeah, we're building about 16 DBATs per
month. Um and right we're measuring uh
and again
and this is the small small version,
right? These are nine foot tall uh
aircraft with very large wingspans.
>> Very heavy.
>> These aren't one-way attack drones.
They're not quadcopters. They are very
sophisticated, state-of-the-art
airplanes that we're building, right?
And there's an entire engine test
regimen that goes around it. There's
flight testing just like, you know,
Boeing or Airbus are flight testing your
737s. They're going through very intense
quality checks before they ever make it
out into the field. Same thing with
these these these airplanes. But I feel
like I have heard you talk about you
want to be able to provide customers
millions of these things so they can
have swarms of them out there.
>> Yeah. So that's on the AI side. So we
have pretty distinct products. So
Hivemind um which is our AI pilot, our
objective is to scale to 100 million AI
pilots in customers hands for sea, air,
land, space uh applications and
eventually commercial applications,
commercial robotic systems as well. Um
and so uh we are working a number of
different government programs. We also
have a product that we call Hivemind
Enterprise. It's an SDK, a software
developer kit that we ship to customers.
You can think of it as like the you know
the the closest analogy I could come up
with is like the claw code of autonomy
development of AI pilot development. It
makes it easy uh to do.
>> Let me let me unpack that a little bit
first. So, one part of the business is
you make these drones, the hardware, and
you put your software in there, and they
go off into the world and do their
thing. But there's there's also you're
figuring out a way to use your software
to allow other drone makers to use the
your software and have their businesses
built around your software.
>> Yep. Yeah. And so the look, at the end
of the day, the customer wants an AI
pilot on their unmanned system. um and
either shield AI, we'll participate in
programs and build a bespoke AI pilot
for that customer. We were just
announced as the US Air Force uh one of
two uh autonomy providers, AI pilot
providers for their CCAs. We're uh
partnered with Anderal to integrate our
AI pilot onto their Fury drone. Um and
we've been having a lot of success in
that partnership with them and the
partnership with the US Air Force. And
then there are companies and countries
that wish to have the capability to
build the AI pilots themselves. Um and
so we have worked uh the Singapore Air
Force has purchased our software
development kit because they believe uh
having the local indigenous ability to
build AI pilots is important in the same
way a country wants the ability to
manufacture things and will nationalize
or you know help internalize those
capabilities locally. uh they believe AI
and autonomy development is critical for
their country's future.
>> You've talked about really kind of a
hybrid force structure where the US has
a handful of very expensive assets like
fighter jets and aircraft carriers
augmented by millions of more of these
affordable uh drones. Why do you think
that's the winning model?
>> I do talk a lot about a hybrid force
architecture. I'm not saying, you know,
we've got 11 carrier strike groups. I I
don't know what the right number is, but
it's certainly not I don't think it's
12, right? I don't think it's 13. I
think it's, you know, it's probably
eventually at one day in the world, we
might go down to less than 10 uh less
than 11 uh carrier strike groups. I
don't think that we need every single um
fighter jet that, you know, we're we're
on track to build uh 1,500, I think,
F-35s. And like look, the answer might
actually be like, hey, you know, instead
of building 1500, build 800 F-35s, build
400, whatever that number is. It's an
incredible capability. And look, you're
seeing it play out right now where these
drones are t there's they're taking on
more and more of these missions. They're
not taking every single mission yet. And
so I want to be very very like careful
and saying and like people say like,
"Oh, Brandon wants to get rid of every
single expensive thing." Not true
whatsoever. But you're going to start to
see um these systems just more and more
capable. And I would actually equate it
to and you're going to see the
proliferation of them more and more.
It's no different than what has happened
in the compute industry where we started
off with desktops then we moved to
laptops and now mobile phones are
ubiquitous and like I can do 90% of what
I need to on my mobile phone uh versus a
laptop. Um doesn't mean I still have a
laptop. I still use it but like um
mobile phones much more ubiquitous and
in in often cases you know a little bit
cheaper than the you know a high-end
laptop or a high-end desktop computer
that is uh you can think of as our
fighter jets or you know uh aircraft
carriers as those desktops and laptops
you can think of unmanned systems as
mobile phones and they will become
ubiquitous just like mobile phones.
Well, I think that ubiquity uh of
drones, I think, scares some people,
especially as they look at what's
happened in the Ukraine conflict and
what that means for the US and potential
um hostilities that it might see in the
future. There's a lot of concern about
the US and China's relationship in the
near term or in the medium term. Um how
do you see drones playing into that? uh
and and to what extent uh is this uh
kind of need to build up for uh
preparation for whatever might be
coming.
>> Just to be clear, right, what have our
been our conventional deterrence
mechanisms? They've been our aircraft
carriers. They've been our fighter jets.
They have those have deterred our
adversaries from doing things when when
you see a country start to get
belligerent. What do we do? We park an
aircraft carrier, you know, 15 miles off
the coast and we say, "Hey, you know,
just so you're tracking, uh, we've got,
you know, this thing full of 80 F-18s."
Um, and and again, I am a diehard
believer in peace through strength. I
absolutely believe um in uh, you know,
speak softly but carry a big stick. And
that's what building up, you know, this
technology, this these forms of drones
is really all about at the end of the
day. Um, if you're not leading in this
space, uh, then you are, uh, then you
are at risk of not being able to deter
countries. Uh, you are at risk at losing
the, uh, the the rules-based order that
the United States has helped establish
over the past 70 years. And so I just
think it's so important that the US
military, that the United States of
America leads with AI, leads with
drones. Um, as we move forward, uh, over
the next, you know, 25 years.
>> As we wrap up, let's go back to where we
started. Uh, we talked about your time
in Afghanistan and how that led you to
design the drones that are part of
Shield AI's arsenal today. I I'm curious
as you look at some of the conflicts
that we're seeing today,
how is that shaping kind of the
evolution of the defense tech that
you're working on uh for the next uh
wave?
>> It's an ever evolving uh cat-and- mouse
game, right? Um when we uh do something
with our AI pilot that enables to work,
then you'll see them adapt their
electronic warfare tactics on the
battlefield. Um and so you have to be
constantly involved and again at the end
of the day what I think's happening what
we're seeing is you are seeing these
systems uh move towards uh more AI
pilots so that they can operate in large
teams they can operate when GPS and
communications are jammed. Those are and
that is about an underlying principle of
warfare which is mass and maneuver. Like
if you're able to maneuver your mass
more effectively than the adversary,
you're going to win more battles. you
are going to win more wars. Um, and AI
enables the maneuver of mass at scales
and speeds that are unprecedented uh in
human history.
>> Brandon, thank you so much for joining
us today. I think this was a great
conversation.
>> Thank you, Tim. Really appreciate it.